Information Technology Project Manager
Verity Credit Union  Seattle, WA Hybrid 5 days ago

About the job
This role will be responsible for all aspects related to technology project management and execution including; initiating, planning, monitoring, controlling, and successful, timely completion of projects for the Organization. This position provides leadership to other business units using project management best practice techniques and principles. The Project Manager leverages resource management best practices in the evaluation, coordination, execution and delivery of projects in support of organizational technology and service initiatives. This role is accountable for brokering the alignment of people. Good communication and closing the loop is essential to the success of this position.



We know it is more than just a job…



Verity has always been committed to maintaining a positive work culture and making sure people come first. Some ways we help employees live their best lives:


Competitive based pay, strategic bonuses available
Full insurance benefits with no cost for employee only coverage
Paid time off, combined vacation and sick leave starts accruing immediately and is available to all employees who work 20+ hours per week
Up to 8 hours of paid volunteer time off each year
11 paid holidays each year

ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS



Oversee the planning, initiation, execution, monitoring and closing phases of cross functional projects using project management best practices to ensure projects are completed in a timely, cost-effective, quality manner.
Evaluate and monitor the operational and financial benefits of projects, or other process improvement opportunities, based on strategic value, available resources, associated risks, and cost to ensure that projects are aligned with the organization’s strategic plan, metrics, initiatives, and vision.
Develop work plans for highly complex or specialized technology projects, service and business initiatives.
Follow the prescribed project methodologies on all projects.
Ensure that executive sponsors, project sponsors, stakeholders and team members receive consistent and timely communication regarding project status, issues and risks.
Assist with the ongoing development and implementation of project policies, procedures, tools, and techniques as such that they develop in line with the organization’s cultural and technical requirements.
Identify and manage project risks, including probability, business unit impact, and resource constraints and mitigate risks through contingency plans.
Create and execute project work plans through effective application of established methodologies.
Establishes standards, provides technical support and validation, and ensures success of other program and project matters. Designs and executes testing, quality assurance and communication plans.
Coordinates collaboration between business units through alignment of resources and clear written and verbal communication of project status.
Work effectively with vendor and third party implementation resources.



QUALIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS



Education and Experience

Applicable knowledge of project management principles, concepts and practices. Demonstrated ability to manage a program that employs multiple methodologies (e.g. Waterfall, Agile), preferred.
Minimum two years of technology project management experience acting as a project manager, preferred.
Experience leading banking and credit union technology projects preferred.
Professional certifications in Project Management Institute (PMI), Project Management Professional (PMP), and/or Certified Scrum Master (CSM), preferred.
Ability to oversee implementation of work plans with competing priorities, anticipating and adjusting for contingencies, technical issues and roadblocks.
Proven project management ability - leadership, communication, planning & business case development, team building, project plan development, risk assessment/management, budget management, scope management, etc.
Recognized project management certification, preferred.
Experience in the use of change management methodology, process, measurement and reporting.
Experience in project coordination and working in a team environment.
Experience with project management tools, knowledge of Smartsheet preferred.


Knowledge, Skills and Abilities

Problem solving skills.
Strong verbal, written, and interpersonal skills.
Detail oriented with solution-driven skills.
Excellent skills in time management, organization, prioritization, communication, judgement, problem resolution.
Ability to gather and analyze facts, draw conclusions, define problems, and suggest solutions.
Ability to analyze instructions and data.
Ability to work independently, as a team member and leader.
Ability to effectively and efficiently communicate with a diverse realm of membership, fellow employees.
Strong analytical skills and attention to details.
Ability to organize and prioritize to meet work deadlines.



PHYSICAL CONSIDERATIONS



Verity Credit Union is committed to reasonably accommodating the physical aspects of all positions. Some that may be encountered in this job are:


Ability to sit or stand for long periods of time
Ability to work on computers for a long period of time in an office environment
Lifting of PCs and other equipment


Washington is an At-Will Employment State


Your employment is “at will”, meaning you are free to resign at any time, for any reason, with or without notice. Verity Credit Union is also free to conclude the employment relationship with you at any time, for any reason, with or without notice.


No statement or promise by a credit union representative or board member may be interpreted as a change in the “at will” policy, nor would it constitute an employment or other contractual agreement.

Verity Credit Union is a different kind of financial institution. We are redefining banking by putting our members first. Our profits go to our members, not corporate shareholders, in the form of better rates and lower fees, so you have more money to spend on what you love.

Our vision is to build cooperative communities who dream boldly. That means that we support the people and organizations that make neighborhoods thrive.

We have eight locations in the Seattle area and are 30,000 members strong. All Washingtonians are welcome to join.