12+ year experience in application design, coding, testing, maintenance and debugging skills and strong experience with Java 8/J2EE distributed application development, REST, domain model microservices, Spring Boot, and API gateway.
Experience with Cloud / AWS, Snowflake, Spark, etc.
Good knowledge with DevOps tools like DevOps – Jira, Confluence and CI/CD pipelines (Jenkins)
Demonstrated hands-on development with SQL, Postgres, NoSQL DB, Microservices Architecture
Experience with messaging technologies like Kafka, and queuing technologies, etc.
Experience leveraging open-source technologies and developing with service-oriented architecture
Expert level J2EE/Java with Microservices background preferably in Spring boot, Spring cloud
Expertise in architecting and developing highly reliable, fault-tolerant distributed applications with a focus on performance and scale.
1-2 yrs of experience in python will be preferred
Should have diverse financial experience in Investment domain and processes

Java 8 or newer Development, Spring framework a must
A clear understanding of Microservice architectures a must; Experience implementing MSE is a plus
RESTful, SOAP services, XML
Experience working with Relational DB's primarily MySQL; Solr is a plus
Broad and deep knowledge/experience spanning a wide range of software development methodologies, technologies, and architectures - Service Oriented; SCRUM/Agile; MVC, SAAS; Including software design patterns; B2B
Experience in designing, implementing, and supporting enterprise level applications
Experience with development IDEs are a must; IntelliJ experience preferred but not required
Operating Sys: Windows, Linux (primarily Redhat and CentOS), MacOs, Bash script
Version & Quality Control: Git (Command line); Understanding of GitFlow concepts are a plus
PM: Atlassian suite (JIRA, Confluence)
Expert knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle in an Agile/SCRUM environment
Expert knowledge of Object-Oriented Development methodologies
Strong relational database design and development experience
Demonstrated ability to build, coach, and support high performance teams
Innovative, results-driven expert in enterprise Application Development, Architecture, Integration, and Implementation
Experienced in complex requirements analysis
Experience in large internet eCommerce environments and technologies

Experience in developing applications which consume a large volume of data through direct integrations is a must. Preferably identity and access entitlement data.
Understanding (or willingness to learn) how various platforms (Windows, Linux, SQL Server, Oracle, Postgres, etc.) organize their internal identity and entitlement data
Background in programming, networking, and OS. Experience in development, tooling, operations, and support for production java web applications - this should include familiarity with network device configurations)
Experience in the full lifecycle of application development includes understanding of CI/CD, application test cases and performance testing
Java Application Development. Familiarity with java (v15), Spring and Maven
Comfortable with light threading and alternative asynchronous frameworks / methodologies
To qualify for the role, you must have A bachelor's degree in a related field and approximately 5+ years of related work experience
Familiarity with the following libraries is nice to have
Apache Camel
Flyway
JOOQ
Activiti Open Source
Lombok
Quartz (scheduler)
Python
Ability to read / write python scripts for data processing
Experience with FrontEnd development. Familiarity with typescript & javascript, Angular, html & CSS. Experience in debugging front-end issues using browser development tools. Experience with third party angular component libraries (primeng experience is a plus)
Strong SQL skills
Familiarity with SQL DDL, DQL, and DML
Should be comfortable with CTEs and advanced SQL querying
Familiarity with BPMN (business process markup notation) is a plus
Cloud environments
Knowledge of Azure / Azure Dev Ops is a plus
Understanding of LDAP filtering
Networking
Basic networking knowledge
Familiarity with Load Balancers and their configuration
Strong understanding of REST / json-rpc type API design and usage
Basic understanding of Oauth2 / OpenID Connect (specific experience with Okta a plus)
Experience with architectural decisions on backend and library choices for custom applications is a plus
Understanding of SOX. SOC1 and SOC2 requirements in application design.



Participate in projects associated with the technology domain, including installation, upgrades, and deployment efforts
Identify opportunity for service quality and availability within the technology domain environment
Review and analyze technical assignments or challenges that are related to low to medium risk deliverables and that require research, evaluation, and selection of alternative technology domains
Present recommendations for resolving issues or may escalate issues as needed to meet established service level agreements
Exercise independent judgment while also developing understanding of given technology domain in reference to security and compliance requirements
Collaborate and consult with technology colleagues, internal partners, and stakeholders
Required Qualifications, US:
2+ years of Software Engineering experience, or equivalent demonstrated through one or a combination of the following: work experience, training, military experience, education
2+ Years of Big Data Experience
2+ Years of Python, PySpark Experience
2+ Years of Hadoop Administration Experience
Familiarity with CI/CD Pipelines, Working with major projects handling Big Data: Jenkins, Sonar Cube, Blackduck, uDeploy, Artifactory
Desired Qualifications:
Ability to develop partnerships and collaborate with other business and Technology Team members.
Knowledge and understanding of technology performance: analysis and tuning for applications.
Financial Industry Experience


Create SQL scripts that will fulfill the user requests and submit the scripts to the DBAs for execution.
Set up automated processes, when required, for handover to the deployment team.
Responsible for development of high-quality database solutions.
Review and interpret ongoing business report requirements including researching data requirements.
Analyze existing SQL queries for performance improvements and, suggest new queries.
Develop procedures and scripts for data migration in addition to, providing timely scheduled management reporting.
Investigate exceptions.
Keep records of all scripts and queries associated with each request.
Identify frequently submitted requests, research potential solutions, and implement the solutions to minimize future errors.
Monitor internal ticketing system as well as executive requests through email.
Research the requests and acquire additional information from the users if necessary.
Design, develop and maintain SQL applications/ETL, databases, reports, and programs.
Create, document, and implement test plans.
Set up and maintain automated SQL scheduled tasks.
Investigate and provide support to the business regarding all data related issues.
Design, build, and maintain efficient, reusable, and reliable code.
Document current and new processes.
Ensure the best possible performance and maintain the quality and responsiveness of applications.
