Development of various types of financial models to value debt and equity for mergers, acquisitions, and capital raising transactions.
Perform various valuation methods – comparable companies, precedents, and DCF.
Develop recommendations for product offerings, private equity transactions, mergers and acquisitions, and valuations.
Conduct preparation and review of materials used in the financing of clients, including investment memoranda, management presentations, and pitchbooks.
Develop relationships with new and existing clients in order to expand the business.
Perform due diligence, research, analysis, and documentation of live transactions.
Create presentations for client portfolios.
Affinity for current events, critical issues, and relevant news.

Three-Statement Model
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) Model
Merger Model (M&A)
Initial Public Offering (IPO) Model
Leveraged Buyout (LBO) Model
Sum of the Parts Model
Consolidation Model
Budget Model
Forecasting Model
Option Pricing Model

MBA (Associate position) or equivalent education, training, and work-related experience.
Bachelor’s degree (Analyst position) from a target school, or equivalent
Three or more years of experience (Associate position) in a finance or business background, particularly on the quantitative side
Ability to work in a fast-paced, team-based environment with minimal supervision.
Working knowledge of deal structuring and closing principals.
Strong communication and networking skills.
Impeccable research, quantitative and analytical skills, especially in explaining market events.
Proven proficiency in Microsoft Office products, especially Microsoft Excel and VBA.
Ability to organize and track overlapping tasks and assignments, with frequent priority changes.
Strong financial modeling skills.
To ensure you have the skills required for the job, launch our investment banking courses now!

The capital market
 is where the companies raise funds from the common public via IPO & private placement. It is a link between the investors and the company since the company requires funds for its growth & expansion, and investors want to park their money in potential companies to earn future profits.

The Capital Market is divided into Primary & Secondary Markets.

Primary Market: It refers to the fresh issue of securities to the public for the first time in the company’s history. Companies who want to raise funds from the primary market
 can raise via IPO, offer through prospectus, rights issue & private placements.
Secondary Market: Once the funds are raised from the primary market, the stock gets listed on the trading platform for normal trading in terms of buyers and sellers in the secondary market
.
Stock Markets
 and Bond Markets

are the two major sources of capital markets. For example, NYSE in the United States is the world’s largest stock market. Capital Markets function in the US is regulated by the SEC, an agency that ensures smooth working of the stock markets as per the policies laid down from time to time.

In earlier times, capital markets jobs used to operate without computers, but in today’s scenario, they are operated by computer-based electronic trading platforms.


Responsibilities	Responsible for listing the company on the stock exchanges to raise capital.
Designation	Merchant Banker
Actual Role	Closely work with the capital markets and regulators to complete the listing process for a company via IPO or Private Placement.
Job Statistics	The Bureau of Labor Studies has captured no data. However, being a unique profile, merchant bankers normally work on a commission basis which varies from 1% to 3% of the Issue Size.
Top Companies	JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, Black Stone Group, and N M Rothschild & Sons are some of the top companies to work in the capital markets division.
Salary	They work on a commission basis on a deal-to-deal basis. The commission rate can be as high as 2-3% of the total deal size.
Demand & Supply	Very high demanded profile in the market since, as per the regulations, only merchant bankers are allowed to execute an IPO.
Education Requirement	CFA/CPA / MBA from Tier -1 Universities with at least 15-20 Yrs of Exp.
Recommended Courses	CPA/ MBA / CFA
Positives	Client-facing role as the banker works directly with the company’s top management, and one transaction can generate a huge amount of revenue for the company.
Negatives	Extensive knowledge is required for the subject as there are multiple companies worldwide in different sectors.

Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA)
CFAs are the most popular career option in the industry. The CFA international certification program offered by the CFA Institute, USA educates you on the verticals of financial analysis like qualitative analysis, reporting, portfolio management, ethics, and so on. It is similar to the Chartered Accountant (CA) certification course, and the exam can be given from any certified center across India. This qualification makes you eligible for positions like Research Analyst and Fund Manager. Anyone with a bachelor’s degree in any stream can apply for this certification.

Financial Risk Manager (FRM)
FRM is also an internationally recognised certification program offered  by the GARP organisation, USA. Giving you a strong foundation of the concepts of the risk management aspect of the market, this certification opens up risk management roles in the stock markets as well as financial institutions like banks, insurance companies and NBFCs.You do not require a bachelor’s degree to appear for the exam, however you need to work for two years on a financial risk portfolio to get certified

Master in Finance
You can opt for MSc Finance or MBA Finance; this course educates you on nearly every aspect of the financial market and gives you an undeniable edge over your competitors.

The National Institute of Securities Market (NISM)
NISM offers several certificates in the securities market at nominal costs. SEBI has made it mandatory to have NISM certificates for different job roles in the securities market, and this certificate adds a lot of value to one’s resume. These certificates are valid only for 3 years, but are a good option for those looking for jobs in equity/commodity trading or back office management.

However, While Indian society generally pushes for more conventional career paths like medicine, engineering and law, trading has been a desirable career option for a long time in other developed countries. Trading has the potential to be a full-time professional career and more candidates are beginning to seek out stock market jobs. There is no minimum age to begin investing in the stock market; minors as well as adults can invest. A minor’s account will be managed by the guardians until the account holder reaches adulthood. Note that you will require a PAN card for opening a demat account. If you’re looking to work for yourself, and make a successful career as a Stock Market investor, then read on for some tips.

What do you need to become a successful trader?
In order to become a successful trader, keep the following in mind:

Formulate a clear, straightforward trading plan. The trading plan’s objectives must be clearly outlined and should be of purpose to the trader.
Familiarise yourself with the technology, platforms and various methods for employing a strategy.
Build trust and consistency in your strategy through repeated execution and testing. Be patient and persistent; over time your experience and expertise will both grow
Beware of behavioural pitfalls like recency bias, revenge trading and stereotyping.
Maintain certain rules, standards and milestones for yourself as a trader.
Invest your time and energy into your career in the stock marketas a serious full-time profession, and prepare for the risk of losses.

