Coordinating with Talent Acquisition team, hiring managers on FTE hiring
Assisting hiring managers during Onboarding, off-boarding of PSL resources
Maintaining & tracking various workforce metrics critical to optimize and implement workforce strategy
Collaborating with strategy & transformation manager to optimize workforce, forecast & implementation of strategy
Tracking & maintaining workforce master data to generate various workforce metrics for senior leadership

The Project Administrator role is a central role to improving the efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency of Retail Marketing’s project portfolio and resource management operations. This role will be the primary product administrator of our Marketing Resource Management (MRM) system – Workfront – and will be expected to maintain and execute against a roadmap of prioritized opportunities to make the system work for our needs. They will also need to demonstrate excellent project and program management skills to maintain RM’s portfolio pipeline infrastructure, including intake, prioritization, and operational reporting and analysis.

Core Responsibilities

Manages project pipeline workstreams and Marketing Resource Management (MRM) system. Develops, implements, and monitors project operations. Contributes expertise to major project deliverables, workflow design, and required tasks.
Organizes the collection and analysis of data of key business statistics/metrics related to the operation of the business' surrounding services, processes, and programs within the department. Creates and maintains a monthly business report that articulates key business outcomes for review by the department head and RIG stakeholders.
Owns and manages periodic standard reporting processes that deliver reports of varying complexity to internal clients. Creates, measures, and updates metrics and dashboards for department. Organizes and disseminates complex information in an "easy to understand" manner for trend identification and presentation to management.
Provides insight on best practices and common obstacles based on prior experiences. Ensures strategies are aligned with the overall department strategy.
Communicates project status and issues regularly to stakeholders, including leaders, team members, and senior managers.
Builds and maintains effective relationships. Proactively fosters communication between internal and external project stakeholders. Influences key decisions across stakeholder groups.
Proactively identifies, manages, and mitigates risks and any related project issues. Communicates solutions on key issues or projects to management and stakeholders to obtain their input and buy-in as appropriate.
Participates in special projects and performs other duties as assigned.

Hire, train and manage a team consisting of four Business Analysis Consultants and one Project Manager responsible for supporting the technology related efforts and new business or process change initiatives across multiple business units. Actively develop and mentor direct and indirect reports to ensure they are able to perform their roles; this role may also be responsible for the management of contract staff and vendors.
Plan, direct and help manage business development activities to ensure they are delivered in accordance with the organizational strategy.
Define clear, achievable goals, to ensure program teams success and facilitate rapid decision making. Anticipate and aggressively remove obstacles that slow down or prevent teams from achieving objectives.
Manage the portfolio of initiatives to ensure appropriate resource allocation, adherence to scope, schedule, budget and strategic alignment to business objectives, requirements and key performance indicators.
Develop strong partnerships with functional leaders to drive focus on business objectives and be a trusted partner for executive management to ensure program success.
Partner with cross-functional teammates to drive workgroup alignment meetings to address tactical release issues, dependencies, team status, production issues, metrics review, milestones, etc.
Partner with the IT Development and Desktop Support Team Leader (FMR-IT) and coordinate the development of technology to ensure integration and synergy of all components and ensuring business objectives are met.
Manage the IT budget.
Exhibit strong change management abilities.
Define key performance indicators for core programs and processes, and track delivery against program objectives.
Establish, negotiate and maintain technology design and vendor contracts. Ensure obligations are executed and contractual relationships are complete.
Communicate new/updated programs, policies, and processes to leaders, employees, and cross functional organizations.
Accountable for release management, automation, and systems maintenance of critical business systems.
Communicate status of portfolio to senior management and executive team, including recommendations to improve performance and corrective actions.

A thought leader with the ability to help lead others in the organization to change.
Ability to create a collaborative environment that fosters creativity, innovation, and learning.
Ability to establish credibility and rapport with senior executives and technical and non-technical team members alike.
Must be able to work collegially and collaboratively.
Proven ability to manage multiple projects simultaneously, prioritize each project, and work across groups to validate scope, timelines, budget and resources.
Ability to anticipate issues, identify solutions and provide clear guidance to team members and business partners
Excellent time management, organizational, negotiation and prioritization skills.
Demonstrated interpersonal, written and verbal communication skills, and personnel management skills
Flexible in adapting to new and varying situations
Able to think and perform under pressure
Proactive and positive attitude, highly motivated, self-directed
Detail-oriented with strong problem-solving skills