
This is a role that is part of the program management team involved in 2 separate but inter-related projects - a new office campus fit-out and a new commercial property development. This role reports to the Development Program Lead overall in charge of both projects.

New Office Campus Fit-out

Manage and support the program of works related to the fitout of a new office campus facility from inception to completion.
Support and coordinate the internal project team to manage all stages of the project from initiation & planning, workplace strategy, design, procurement, construction, testing & commissioning, move, completion & close-out, handover to operations.
Work closely with internal stakeholders from different functions in the organisation, including finance, regulatory compliance, legal, risk management, technology, procurement, HR, branding & comms on matters related to this project.
Work closely with external parties on the project team comprising design consultants, project manager, cost consultants, contractors, suppliers, other vendors, landlord / developer and related government agencies. You will guide the project to achieve outcomes that meet business objectives.
Maintain a strong and positive relationship with internal stakeholders / end-users of the space, by understanding their needs, requirements and constraints, then act in the best interest of the organisation to deliver the project and achieve these objectives.
Manage and facilitate communication, control, reporting and operating procedures, and ensure that clear objectives, quality control and risk management systems are in place.
Support the process of preparing for and obtaining internal business approvals on matters related to the project at different stages, including presentations to different levels of management within the organisation.
Attend project meetings, review plans, designs and budgets, facilitate decision-making, address and resolve issues, monitor and report on progress to the business on a regular basis.
Manage the overall project program establishing clear milestones and objectives to ensure successful project delivery.
Manage the project budget in accordance with requirements, forecast and control expenditure to achieve completion within budget.
Manage and oversee the authorities’ requirements on the project and work with consultants to secure all necessary approvals.
Manage, oversee and coordinate the design process, preparation of the detailed design brief and user requirements, integration of the different disciplines of design, value engineering, presentations, reviews and sign-offs from the project committee and different user groups, compliance with design code and guidelines.
Manage and monitor the process of procuring the main contractor, other specialist contractors and suppliers to work on the project.
Monitor the construction process and activities to track progress in accordance with master schedule and in accordance with defined objectives.
Monitor the process of testing & commissioning, final inspections & approvals, and handover process to the building & facilities management team.
Manage and coordinate the staff moves between existing and new facilities, including the preparation of space for interim swing moves that are required.

New Commercial Property Development

Manage and support the program of works related to a new commercial property development. To be involved in initial market studies, feasibility analysis, land acquisition, formulation of development strategy, authorities and regulatory approvals, development SPV structure, project initiation and planning, legal, financial, commercial matters.
Coordinate the development partner selection process.
Manage the program, scope, interdependencies, processes, risks, milestones and deadlines.
Work with relevant parties to define the development concept, position and strategic parameters, key features and amenities, technology and smart building objectives, sustainability, health & wellness objectives, branding and place-making strategy, leasing & operator strategy, building operations & management plan.
Manage and coordinate across all internal stakeholders and workstreams in the organisation on matters related to the project, across the different domains including finance, regulatory compliance, legal, risk management, technology, procurement, HR, branding & comms.
To work with external stakeholders involved at different stages throughout the development project. Parties include local planning and building construction authorities, technical agencies, architect, engineers, project manager, cost consultant, other specialist consultants, main contractor and other specialist contractors, property and facilities managers.
Support the process of preparing for and obtaining internal business approvals on matters related to the project at different stages, including presentations to different levels of management within the organisation.
Manage and coordinate the project initiation activities, preparation of the project charter, project management plan, procurement strategy, establishment of the internal steering and working committees.
Manage and oversee the planning and development approval process with local authorities. Monitor and track that the required permits are obtained for the project.
Manage the appointment of consultants on the project. Oversee and coordinate the work effort of all consultants on the project to achieve the project objectives.
Work with relevant parties to prepare the budget for the development. Manage, monitor and report on the cost throughout the process of the development project.
Manage, oversee and coordinate the design process, preparation of the detailed design brief and user requirements, integration of the different disciplines of design, value engineering, presentations, reviews and sign-offs from the project committee and different user groups, compliance with design code and guidelines.
Manage and monitor the process of procuring the main contractor, other specialist contractors and suppliers to work on the project.
Monitor the construction process and activities to track progress in accordance with master schedule and in accordance with defined objectives.
Monitor the process of testing & commissioning, final inspections & approvals, and handover process to the building & facilities management team, external operators and tenants (where applicable).
Job Qualifications

Qualifications & Experience

Experienced in the field of project management for corporate commercial office projects.
Good understanding of the overall process of real estate and construction project planning, design, construction and other technical matters.
Able to manage budgets, costs, commercial and contract matters related to the project.
Strong written and verbal communication skills, interpersonal skills. Able to build strong relationships with internal and external stakeholders, interacting with senior executives of the business.
Self-driven and motivated. Able to work independently, be resourceful and possess a keen ability to learn.
Able to communicate plans and support the performance of team members in a clear and motivational manner, contributing to a positive work culture.
At least 12 years of relevant experience, preferably in a consultant or client-side role, handling large-scale office campus fitout projects and/or commercial building development projects.
Relevant educational qualifications in related fields of architecture, engineering, quantity surveying, building or project & construction management.
Proficiency with project management software and MS office suite of tools.

Primary Location

Singapore

Job

Property / Facilities Management

Geotechnical Engineer - 10-15 years exp - firm specialized in finite subsurface and construction observation

This Jobot Job is hosted by Chris Taggart


A Bit About Us

We are a diversified consulting firm specializing in engineering and construction science with respect to finite subsurface and construction observation. We were founded in 2009 with a corporate philosophy of providing sound engineering solutions to construction-related engineering projects.



Why join us?

We challenge ourselves and our team members to become involved at every level of community and its identity. This includes its intent, belief, resources, preferences, needs and risks. One of the ways we achieve this is with respect to our special inspection program. On every educational project, one of our team members is available to discuss engineering, science and construction topics with local schools and our youth. We understand the next generation of scientists, engineers, construction professionals and trades members are sitting in a classroom right now.


experience in civil – geotechnical engineering, with direct involvement in civil and landfill design, condition assessments, subsurface exploration programs, engineering analyses, and regulatory permitting.
Working knowledge of Autodesk Civil3D software (preferred)
Demonstrated strong interest in civil and landfill design (preferred)




Geotechnical Engineer to support the project manager and other staff as directed, to assure customer satisfaction through the preparation of detailed calculations, performing engineering analyses, and completing field assignments. The selected candidate will have the opportunity to work on projects involving site characterization; landfill design and construction; earth retaining structures; deep and soft/weak foundations; water containment structures; and geohazard/earthquake characterization/mitigation.


Construction Worker Responsibilities:
Preparing construction sites, materials, and tools.
Loading and unloading of materials, tools, and equipment.
Removing debris, garbage, and dangerous materials from sites.
Assembling and breaking down barricades, temporary structures, and scaffolding.
Assisting contractors, e.g. electricians and painters, as required.
Assisting with transport and operation of heavy machinery and equipment.
Regulating traffic and erecting traffic signs.
Following all health and safety regulations.
Digging holes, tunnels, and shafts.
Mixing, pouring, and leveling concrete.
Construction Worker Job Requirements:
No formal qualification is required, although a high school diploma may be preferred.
Similar work experience may be beneficial.
Licensure to work with hazardous materials may be required.
Willingness to undertake training if necessary.
Be mild-tempered and a team player.
Be healthy, strong, and fit.


skills in Cloud Amazon Cloud, OCI etc.
solutions for smartphone, mobile, space
Certified on one of the clouds (AWS/GCP)

